# BellaBeatCase
# Prepare:

- Obtained the data set from [Kaggle](insert_kaggle_link_here)
- Determined credibility of data by examining total downloads, tags, and doing personal analysis
- Some files too large for Excel
- Got familiar with all data by opening each CSV and checking out data
- Some data wide, some data long
- Verified Data to have 33 user IDs by counting distinct IDs
  - Used SUM(1/CountIF(Range, Range)
- Examined Weight log data
  - Only 8 users logged weight
    - 61% was self-reported, meaning there could be bias if individuals lied for whatever reason.
    - Has blank cells in fat data
- Ensured no blank cells (all good minus weight info)

# Process:

- Decided what data I wanted to use
  - I will look at Daily data first to gain some overall insights into usage and use more intensive data later if needed
  - Duplicated the data and put it all together in a new worksheet to use easily and preserve the original
  - Started with Daily Activity
    - Looked for unreliable people (lots of 0’s, otherwise known as missed days)
    - Defined unreliable as missed more than 25% of days
      - So, nobody
- Uploaded everything to R in a new file to house all analysis
- Correlation between sleep and calories burned is very low (0.022).
- Average total steps per day are 7638, which is a little bit less for having health benefits according to CDC research. They found that taking 8,000 steps per day was associated with a 51% lower risk for all-cause mortality (or death from all causes). Taking 12,000 steps per day was associated with a 65% lower risk compared with taking 4,000 steps.
- Go for a walk campaign.

# About the company:

Bellabeat is a high-tech company founded in 2013, specializing in health-focused smart products for women. With a global presence and a strong online presence through e-commerce channels and online retailers, Bellabeat's mission is to use technology to empower women with valuable insights into their health and wellness. The company offers a range of smart wellness products, including the Bellabeat app, the Leaf wellness tracker, the Time wellness watch, and the Spring water bottle, all designed to help women make informed decisions about their well-being.

# Business task:

Analyzing smart device usage data to gain insights into how consumers are using non-Bellabeat smart devices. These insights will be used to inform Bellabeat's marketing strategy.

# Goal:

Understand consumer behavior and identify opportunities for growth in the smart device market.

# Key stakeholders:

- Urška Sršen (Cofounder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat)
- Sando Mur (Cofounder and key member of Bellabeat's executive team)
- The Bellabeat marketing analytics team
- The Bellabeat executive team
- Myself (the junior data analyst)
- Potential consumers of Bellabeat's products
- Marketing and advertising partners

# Process:

**Data sources used**:

FitBit Fitness Tracker Data on Kaggle in 18 CSV files. This dataset was generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016 and 05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. Individual reports can be parsed by export session ID (column A) or timestamp (column B). Variation between output represents the use of different types of Fitbit trackers and individual tracking behaviors/preferences.

**Limitations**:

1. The dataset comprises a limited sample size, with only 30 individuals included.
2. The data is approximately six years old, and Fitbit devices may have advanced to provide more precise results during that time.
3. Due to the data collection method being a survey, there is a potential for response bias, which may result in less accurate information as participants may not always provide entirely honest or precise responses.
4. When it comes to weight-related data, there are records from just eight users. Additionally, one of the fields contains numerous blank entries, and approximately two-thirds of the weight entries were manually input.

**Cleaning/Processing and Analyzing**:

**Data analyzed**:
- dailyActivity_merged.csv
- sleepDay_merged.csv
- weightLogInfo_merged.csv

**Applications used**:
EXCEL and R
I used Excel for the initial look at this data, utilizing pivot tables and Excel functions like AVERAGE, MIN, MAX. I then did some cleaning and verification of the data. I verified the start and end dates were consistent. I also noticed there were 33 IDs created, which implies there were some duplicate IDs created by a couple of users entering their info.

Next, I examined the Weight log data and noticed a few inconsistencies.
- Only 8 users logged weight
- 61% was self-reported, meaning there could be bias if individuals lied for whatever reason.
- I then looked for blank cells utilizing the =COUNTBLANK(Range) function.
  - There were blank cells in the fat data column.
    - Because of this, I will not include the fat data.

To examine the integrity of the weight recording, I looked at the ‘IsManualReport’ column and used =1-COUNTIF(G2:G68, "false")/COUNTA(G2:G68) to see what percentage of the data was self-reported vs. being logged through one of the connected scale devices (TRUE).

I wanted to see what features people were using the least. To do so, I counted the non-null or ‘0’ entries for each column of the dailyActivity_merged table.
- First, I used =COUNTIF(Range, "<>0") to count the non-zero entries
- Next, I used =MIN(Range) function to identify the lowest utilized feature, which I determined to be ‘LoggedActivitiesDistance’ with only 32 entries.

The LoggedActivitiesDistance column represents the total kilometers from logged devices. Because only 32 entries were made for tracking distance (3% of total entries), this could indicate that users don’t always use the devices for distance training. Rather, it may be mainly used for other ‘non-distance’ related workouts/activities.

I then did some basic analysis of the sleepDay_merged table, utilizing the AVERAGE, MIN, and MAX functions.
- Minutes Asleep, Time in Bed, Hours Asleep, Hours in Bed
  - Average: 419.4673123, 458.6392252, 7.0, 7.6
  - Min: 58, 61, 1.0, 1.0
  - Max: 796, 961, 13.3, 16.0

I used COUNT() to identify how many entries were made on the sleep table to examine the utilization of the sleep tracking feature. I noticed people used the sleep tracking function quite regularly, as about 46% of the possible entries for sleep data were used.
- (30 days * 30 users) / COUNT(range)
- 900 / 413 sleep entries = 0.46 or 46%

Last, in Excel, I wanted to examine the relationship between Very Active Minutes and Average Calories burned by the users. To do so, I created a pivot table from the dailyActivity_merged table. I then used VeryActiveMinutes as my rows and Average of Calories burned for my values. I grouped my VeryActiveMinutes data in increments of 10 to identify if there were any patterns or thresholds for where calories burned substantially increased per active minute.

My findings, however, were as expected: More Very active minutes means more calories. Makes sense! Based on our user's data to meet the daily 2500 calorie burn rate, which is recommended by the CDC for users in the weight class of 72 kg, you should do a little more than 50 min of exercise. Users below the threshold of 50 minutes did not burn an average of 2500 calories a day. See table below for breakdown:

| Very Active Minutes | Average of Calories |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| 0-9                | 2028.75             |
| 10-19              | 2432.968421         |
| 20-29              | 2232.071429         |
| 30-39              | 2389.196429         |
| 40-49              | 2224.044444         |
| 50-59              | 2649.257143         |
| 60-69              | 2997.138889         |
| 70-79              | 3156.875            |
| 80-89              | 3364.75             |
| 90-99              | 3426.428571         |
| 100-109            | 3620.3              |
| 110-119            | 3766.923077         |
| 120-129            | 3840.75             |
| 130-139            | 3823                |
| 180-189            | 3482                |
| 190-199            | 4546                |
| 200-210            | 4481.666667         |
| Grand Total        | 2303.609574         |

They could use these numbers to help people set goals for calorie burn rates. If you do x minutes, you should burn Y.

# R:

I then went into R to continue my analysis of this dataset and see if I could find some more actionable insights.
